Accomplishments: What was done? What was learned?
-------------------------------------------------

- What are the projects major goals?

  1. The development of a new mathematical model of attack trees based
     on monoidal categories.

  2. The development of a new domain specific functional programming
     language for conducting threat analysis using attack trees.
     
        - The development of the core language and its semantic
          relationship with the mathematical model.

        - The development of a surface language to aid security
          researchers in conducting threat analysis.

        - The development of a web-based IDE for working with the new
          language.

- What was accomplished under these goals (you must provide
  information for at least one of the four categories)?

   - Major Activities:     

     During the summer of 2017 I was able to hire two visiting
     Ph.D. students: Jiaming Jiang from North Carolina State
     University, and Richard Blair from the University of Iowa.

     Jiaming finished her work on the new categorical model, logic,
     and type theory capable of modeling attack trees.  The draft is
     ready to be submitted to LINEARITY 2018 a FLOC workshop in March.

     Richard Blair extended the work on gradual typing with Michael
     Townsend, who graduated in Spring 2017, to include linearity. We
     have an initial draft that we are finishing up now.

     I was able to connect the work of this project, specifically to
     non-commutative linear logic, to Valeria de Paiva's older work on
     the same subject.  We published the following paper on the
     subject:

     Valeria de Paiva and Harley Eades III. "Dialectica Categories for
     the Lambek Calculus". In: Artemov S., Nerode A. (eds) Logical
     Foundations of Computer Science. LFCS 2018. Lecture Notes in
     Computer Science, vol 10703. Springer, Cham.     
     doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-72056-2_16

     Jiaming's draft mentioned above can be seen as an alternative
     approach to the previous mentioned paper, but is able to connect
     to more systems and has a more algebraic semantics.

     After presenting our work at multiple workshops and conferences
     over the past two years many colleagues were of the opinion that
     it might be worth examining the potential to extend our system to
     include dependent types which would also lend to an existing open
     problem.  I presented some of my initial ideas on this approach
     at Trends in Linear Logic and Applications:

     Harley Eades III. "Introducing a New Project on The Combination
     of Substructural Logics and Dependent Type Theory." International
     Workshop on Trends in Linear Logic and Applications (TLLA)
     affiliated with the Second International Conference on Formal
     Structures for Computation and Deduction (FSCD). 31 July 2017.

     This connection will have a substantial amount of broader
     impacts, especially, in dependent types for substructural logics.
     In addition, this new connection has blossomed a new
     collaboration between my group and Dominic Orchard's group at Kent
     University in the UK.

   - Specific Objectives:     

     We have finalized LINA's design and are drafting a paper
     describing it called "An Intuitionistic Linear Logical Semantics
     of SAND Attack Trees" and we will be submitting it to Graphical
     Models in Computer Security (GraMSec) 2018.

     This paper includes three new semantics for attack trees, and
     Lina's core logic.  It can be found on the Arxiv:

     https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.06886

     We have also begun fleshing out the extension to dependent types,
     and have already obtained interesting results.

     Finally, we have been working on the implementation of Lina and
     its web-based IDE.

   - Significant Results:

     We have finalized Lina's semantics and design and will be
     communicating it to the community in a future paper to be
     submitted to Graphical Models in Computer Security (GraMSec)
     2018.     

   - Key outcomes or Other achievements:
     Nothing to report.

- What opportunities for training and professional development has the
  project provided?

  This project has again proven to have a substantial impact on
  mentorship and professional development of the PI.

  Over the past year I had successful hires of two graduate research
  assistants, and several undergraduate research assistants.  I
  continue to be the only professor in our department able to hire
  students for research, and so this has a substantial impact on the
  training of our students, and the motivation of our faculty.
  However, this should be changing soon, because of new hires.

  I have also been able to attend both the International Conference on
  Functional Programming (ICFP) 2017, and Logical Foundations of
  Computer Science 2018 to present my work, but both of these have
  lead to new ideas and new collaborations.

  This semester one of my undergraduate research assistants, Aubrey
  Bryant, has had a talk accepted as part of the Augusta University
  undergraduate research conference on a new algorithm she has been
  developing for testing the equivalence of attack trees.

  Lastly, my second undergraduate research assistant, Preston Keel,
  has been actively collaborating online with Dominic Orchard's
  undergraduate research assistant on the dependent types angle of
  this project.

  Both of these points significantly contribute to their development
  as young researchers.

- How have the results been disseminated to communities of interest?

  Through presentations at workshops and conferences, specifically, at
  Trends in Linear Logic and Applications 2017 and Logical Foundations
  in Computer Science 2018.

- What do you plan to do during the next reporting period to
  accomplish the goals?

  - Disseminate our current results.

  - Finish Lina's implementation.

  - My student, Aubrey Bryant, and I have found a new connection
    between our work on attack trees and Alexandra Silva's work on
    POMSET languages that can be used to give a new efficient algorithm
    for attack trees with sequential composition.  We also found a
    counter example to the current known method in the literature, and
    so this work will fix that problem.

  - Continue exploring the extension to dependent types, and how it
    will impact substructural type theories in general.

Products : What has the project produced?
-----------------------------------------

Nothing to report.

Participants/Organizations : Participants & Other Collaborating
Organizations - Who has been involved?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Who has been involved?

  Aubrey Bryant: Undergraduate student at Augusta University
  Months: 1

  Working on a new algorithm for testing the equivalence of attack
  trees.

  Preston Keel: Undergraduate student at Augusta University
  Months: 3

  Working on the new extension of Lina to dependent types.

  Jiaming Jiang: Graduate student at North Carolina State University
  Months: 3

  Developed the mathematical model in monoidal categories, and Lina's
  core logic.

  Michael Townsend: Undergraduate student at Augusta University
  Months: 2

  Working on the connection of the mathematical model of this project
  to gradual type systems.  He graduated in Spring 2017.

Impact: What is the impact of the project? How has it contributed?
-----------------------------------------------------------------

I would like to reiterate what I reported during year 1, and that is
that this award continues to have a major impact on our students,
faculty, and department.  The students are impacted by being able to
participate in cutting edge research, and being introduced to visiting
graduate students which allows them to learn about graduate school.

The faculty have benefited from the interaction with graduate students
as well.  Every summer I host a graduate level seminar on a research
topic that is open to students, faculty, and remote participants.
The visiting graduate students bring a lot to this event, and the
other faculty often report learning from them. 

This award is also having and will continue to have an impact in
research.  We keep finding connections to security, interactive theory
proving, and verification using substructural logics which this award
may lead to solutions to open problems.

Finally, this award will lead to the submission of a CAREER award
proposal which will be based on a generalization of the research in
this award.

- What is the impact on other disciplines?

  Our recent LFCS paper and Jiaming's draft on the non-commutative
  linear provides two solutions to open problem posed by computational
  linguist that asks whether exchange can be controlled via a modality
  in the Lambek calculus.  Thus, having an impact on linguistics.

- What is the impact on the development of human recourses (impact on
  human resource development)?
   Nothing to report

- What is the impact on physical resources that form infrastructure?
   Nothing to report

- What is the impact on information resources that form infrastructure?
   Nothing to report

- What is the impact on technology transfer?
  Nothing to report

- What is the impact on society beyond science and technology?
  Nothing to report

Changes/Problems
----------------

  Due to my research assistants graduating it took a semester to be
  able to find and ramp up new students.  Thus, delaying some of the
  results from being finished up.  I have since recruited new students
  who are exceeding my expectations, and the project is now moving
  along as expected.

