Accomplishments: What was done? What was learned?
-------------------------------------------------

- What are the projects major goals?

  1. The development of a new mathematical model of attack trees based
     on monoidal categories.

  2. The development of a new domain specific functional programming
     language for conducting threat analysis using attack trees.
     
        - The development of the core language and its semantic
          relationship with the mathematical model.

        - The development of a surface language to aid security
          researchers in conducting threat analysis.

        - The development of a web-based IDE for working with the new
          language.

- What was accomplished under these goals (you must provide
  information for at least one of the four categories)?

   - Major Activities:

     During the summer of 2016 Jiaming Jiang a Ph.D. student from
     North Carolina State University was hired to aid me in the
     development of the mathematical model in monoidal categories.  We
     are currently writing it up for publication with a target venue
     of the Computer Science Logic Conference and date March 2017.

     The initial draft of the model was presented in a talk to the
     research community as an peer reviewed abstract:

     Harley Eades III, Jiaming Jiang. "On Linear Modalities for
     Exchange, Weakening, and Contraction." Workshop on Linear Logic,
     Mathematics, and Computer Science. Associated with Linear Logic:
     Interaction, Proofs, and Computation (LL2016).
     Accessible online at: http://metatheorem.org/includes/pubs/LL2016.pdf

   - Specific Objectives:

     The initial design and implementation of the core language has
     begun with the aid of Matthew Tennis an Augusta University
     undergraduate student.  We currently have developed an usable
     implementation of a typed functional programming language based on
     intuitionistic linear logic.  This implementation is public and
     we hope to make it available for others to build new systems off
     of.  The implementation can be found online at:
     https://github.com/MonoidalAttackTrees/ILL-Impl

     A connection between the mathematical model of this project has
     been established with the study of gradual type systems for
     functional programming languages.  An Augusta University
     undergraduate student Michael Townsend and I have developed a new
     semantics of gradually typed functional programming languages and
     a prototype language and implementation.  We have begun writing
     this result up for publication with a target venue of the
     International Conference on Functional Programming (ICFP) 2017
     and date of February 2017.

   - Significant Results:
     Nothing to report.

   - Key outcomes or Other achievements:
     Nothing to report.

- What opportunities for training and professional development has the
  project provided?

  Throughout this year the project has provided mentorship to two
  undergraduate research assistants and a visiting Ph.D. student.

  The visiting Ph.D. student was Jiaming Jiang from North Carolina
  State University.  I mentored her in both collaborative research and
  in building her knowledge of the use of category theory in the study
  of programming languages.  She remains an active member of the
  project.  She has begun looking at how what she has learned from
  this project can be applied to her thesis project.

  During Jiaming Jiang's time on the project in the summer of 2016 I
  was able to mentor her in learning category theory and its
  applications to computer science and programming language research.
  To help with this I organized a summer seminar covering category
  theory in the computational sciences.  The seminar attracted two
  postdocs from the University of Iowa, two Ph.D. students including
  Jiaming, and five Augusta University undergraduates in majors
  ranging from computer science and mathematics to physics.

  Michael Townsend is one of the undergraduate students I mentored
  over the course of the first year of this project.  Through this
  project Michael has found a love of both research and the study of
  functional programming languages.  He has begun applying to graduate
  schools to begin next fall where he plans to get his Ph.D. with an
  emphasis in programming languages.

  Matthew Tennis is another undergraduate student I mentored over the
  course of the first year.  He has learned a lot about the
  applications of functional programming, and will be entering the
  industry next year.

  This project also provided myself with several professional
  development opportunities.  I was able to attend the Symposium on
  Trends in Functional Programming (TFP16) and during which a new
  collaboration was formed.  As I mentioned above I presented the new
  results of this project at LL2016 during which I was able to meet
  several researchers in the Linear Logic community for the first
  time.  Finally, this project opened the door for invitations from
  two universities as an invited colloquium speaker.  The first was at
  the Department of Computer Science at the University of Iowa and the
  second was at the Department of Mathematical Sciences at Georgia
  Southern University.

- How have the results been disseminated to communities of interest?

  Through several research presentations:

  - (Peer reviewed) Harley Eades III, Jiaming Jiang. "On Linear Modalities for
     Exchange, Weakening, and Contraction." Workshop on Linear Logic,
     Mathematics, and Computer Science. Associated with Linear Logic:
     Interaction, Proofs, and Computation (LL2016).
     Accessible online at: http://metatheorem.org/includes/pubs/LL2016.pdf

  - Department of Computer Science at the University of Iowa
    colloquium speaker.

  - Department of Mathematical Sciences at Georgia Southern
    University colloquium speaker.

- What do you plan to do during the next reporting period to
  accomplish the goals?

  - Publish the mathematical model developed during the first year.
    Our current target venue is the Computer Science Logic Conference
    (CSL) and with a target date of March 2017.

  - Finish the implementation of the core language. An undergraduate
    student and a visiting Ph.D. will be hired to aid me in this
    development.

  - Develop the surface language and web-based IDE.  An undergraduate
    student will be hired to aid me with this development.

  - Conduct several case studies.  An undergraduate student will be
    hired to aid me in this development.

  - Finally publish our final results.

Products : What has the project produced?
-----------------------------------------

  - An implementation of a functional type system based on
    intuitionistic linear logic that can be used by the community to
    base new developments off of.  We plan to release this as open
    source and freely available online.  The current development can
    be found online at:
    https://github.com/MonoidalAttackTrees/ILL-Impl

Participants/Organizations : Participants & Other Collaborating
Organizations - Who has been involved?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Who has been involved?

   Jiaming Jiang: Graduate student at North Carolina State University
   Months: 3

   Working on the development of the mathematical model in monoidal
   categories.

   Michael Townsend: Undergraduate student at Augusta University
   Months: 3

   Working on the connection of the mathematical model of this project
   to gradual type systems.

   Matthew Tennis: Undergraduate student at Augusta University
   Months: 5

   Working on the development of the core language.

Impact: What is the impact of the project? How has it contributed?
-----------------------------------------------------------------

- What is the impact of the development of the principal discipline(s)
  of the project?  (Describe how findings, results, techniques that
  were developed or extended, or other products from the project made
  an impact or are likely to make an impact on the base of knowledge,
  theory, and research and/or pedagogical methods in the principal
  disciplinary field(s) of the project.)

  The majority of the impact of this project has been related to
  mentorship.  Computer Science at Augusta University consists of
  mostly non-traditional students.  The undergraduate trainees have
  both reported that this project was responsible for opening their
  eyes to the idea of doing research and going to graduate school.
  Now Michael Townsend is actively applying for graduate school to
  being Fall 2017, and Matthew Tennis is considering it as an option.

  This project has also had an impact on Augusta University.  Many
  Augusta University faculty members were unaware of the potential
  projects like this have.  For example, currently Augusta University
  does not have a graduate program, but this project allows for
  visiting Ph.D. students.  Many faculty were not aware that one could
  do this, and so it has breathed new life into the department. In
  addition, the visiting Ph.D. students presence during the summer
  offered the chance for many undergraduate students to interact with
  them, and learn about graduate school.  Thus, impacting our student
  body.

- What is the impact on other disciplines?

  It is too early to tell how this project will impact other
  disciplines, but it has great potential too.  The problems we have
  had to solve with respect to the mathematical model discussed in the
  project goals are related to multiple different disciplines.  For
  example, in mathematical modeling sentence structure in linguistics,
  mathematically modeling operators for processes in security and
  programming languages, and understanding how structural rules
  interact in logic.  In fact, the mathematical model we have
  developed solves several probelems in these areas.

- What is the impact on the development of human recourses (impact on
  human resource development)?
   Nothing to report

- What is the impact on physical resources that form infrastructure?
   Nothing to report

- What is the impact on information resources that form infrastructure?
   Nothing to report

- What is the impact on technology transfer?
  Nothing to report

- What is the impact on society beyond science and technology?
  Nothing to report

Changes/Problems
----------------
  Nothing to report

