Are you or do you know a PhD student looking for an exciting new
research project to join this summer?  You are in luck!

I am looking for a visiting PhD student for summer 2016 to collaborate
with me on a newly funded two year NSF project studying at the
intersection of graphical models of security and functional
programming using category theory and linear logic.

The project:

CRII: SHF: A New Foundation for Attack Trees Based on Monoidal Categories

In short, the project aims to give a new mathematical foundation of
attack trees using monoidal categories, and then by capitalizing on
the Curry-Howard-Lambek correspondence defining a new domain-specific
functional programming language based in linear logic where types will
correspond to attack trees, and programs to semantically valid
transformations on attack trees called Lina for Linear Threat
Analysis.

More information on the project including the complete proposal can be
found here:

https://github.com/heades/attack-trees-in-monoidal-cats

This project has lots of exciting problems to solve.

I am looking for an energetic and passionate student to work closely
with me on this project during the summer of 2016, more specfically,
approximately through the following dates:

June 1, 2016 - July 27, 2016

The hope is for the student and I to lay the initial ground work for
the project and get some initial results that can be published during
the following academic year.

The student should have an interest in the following topics:

- Models of security,
- Categorical logic,
- Intuitionistic linear logic and
- The design and anlysis of statically-typed functional programming
  languages.

Experience in category theory is a plus, but not strictly required as
long as the student is willing to learn.

This opporunity comes with a $5,000 stipend to cover travel, food, and
hotel during the visit.

I am a new professor in computer science at Augusta University in the
wonderful Augusta Georgia.

Augusta is prefectly positioned on the border of Georiga and South
Carolina only two and a half hours from Savannah, GA and the beach at
Tybee Island.  In addition, we are only three hours away from the
Great Smokey Mountains for those who enjoy the great outdoors.

I welcome emails from anyone who is interested!

Very best,
Harley Eades


