Are you or do you know a PhD student looking for an exciting new
funded research project to join this summer or fall?  You are in luck!

I am looking for a visiting PhD student for summer or fall 2018 to
collaborate with me on a funded NSF project working in the
intersection of graphical models of security, functional programming
using category theory, linear logic, and dependent types for
substructrual logics.

This opporunity comes with a $5,000 stipend to cover food and lodging
during the visit.  I have additional money to pay for your travel.

There are two ongoing projects the student can join depending on their
interests. Both of these projects have lots of exciting problems to
solve.

=Project 1=

CRII: SHF: A New Foundation for Attack Trees Based on Monoidal Categories

In short, the project aims to give a new mathematical foundation of
attack trees using monoidal categories, and then by capitalizing on
the Curry-Howard-Lambek correspondence, defining a new domain-specific
functional programming language based in linear logic where types will
correspond to attack trees, and programs to semantically valid
transformations on attack trees called Lina for Linear Threat
Analysis.

More information on the project including the complete proposal can be
found here:

https://github.com/MonoidalAttackTrees

The Lina language is under active developement, you can find the
language here:

https://github.com/MonoidalAttackTrees/Lina

=Project 2=

In collaboration with Dominc Orchard
(https://www.cs.kent.ac.uk/people/staff/dao7/), and his student Vilem
Liepelt, at the University of Kent, we are working on a new linear
dependent type theory based on graded modal type theory.

Using graded coeffects our language allows the programmer to control
various structural rules with minimal annotations, thus, producing a
very elegant and general framework with full dependency for various
substructural logics.

This project can also be seen as a generalization of the Granule
language, please find more info here:

https://github.com/dorchard/granule

We are just getting started, but we do have some initial results.

The interested student would help with the specification of our
new type theory, as well as, exploring categorical models, and/or
even implementation of the language prototype.

=Who I am looking for?=

I am looking for an energetic and passionate student to work closely
with me on one of the above projects during the summer or fall of
2018.  The visit will be three months in total, but specific dates
will be discussed with each candidate.

The hope is for the student and I to work towards some results that
can be published during the following academic year.

The student should have an interest, but does not have to be
experienced, in some of the following topics:

- Models of security,
- Categorical logic,
- Intuitionistic linear logic,
- Dependent type theory, or
- The design and anlysis of statically-typed functional programming
  languages.

Experience in category theory is a plus, but not strictly required as
long as the student is willing to learn.

=Who am I?=

I am an assistant professor in computer science at Augusta University
in the wonderful Augusta Georgia.  More about me here:

http://metatheorem.org/

Augusta is perfectly positioned on the border of Georiga and South
Carolina only two and a half hours from Savannah, GA and the beach at
Tybee Island.  In addition, we are only three hours away from the
Great Smokey Mountains for those who enjoy the great outdoors.

=How to apply?=

Simply send me an email with your CV and a brief summary of your
research interests.  I will be considering applications until April
20th.

I welcome emails from anyone who is interested!

This is an equal opportunity for all! All interested applicants will
receive consideration without regard to race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any
other characteristic protected by law.

Very best,
Harley Eades
